Loose Ruby versioning (#73)
andycroll/andycroll.com: _posts/2019/2019-12-15-use-loose-ruby-versioning-in-your-gemfile.md

---
title: "Use Loose Ruby Versioning in Your Gemfile"
description: "The tiniest little improvement to your life"
layout: article
category: ruby
image:
  base: '2019/use-loose-ruby-versioning-in-your-gemfile'
  alt: 'Red numbered dice'
  credit:  Terry Vlisidis
  source: "https://unsplash.com/photos/vPQbo1D7Eco"

---

> Patch level versions (e.g. 2.6.**3**) of Ruby are compatible with each other and often only include bug fixes and security patches. Significant upgrades to the Ruby language, that include new syntax, features and make bigger changes to the language are released once a year—as a gift for us all—on Christmas Day.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Patch level versions (e.g. 2.6.**3**) of Ruby are compatible with each other and often only include bug fixes and security patches. Significant upgrades to the Ruby language that include new syntax or features, and make bigger changes to the language, are released once a year—as a gift for us all—on Christmas Day.
```

> Patch level versions (e.g. 2.6.**3**) of Ruby are compatible with each other and often only include bug fixes and security patches. Significant upgrades to the Ruby language that include new syntax or features, and make bigger changes to the language, are released once a year—as a gift for us all—on Christmas Day.

Reviewer: *Patch versions or Patch-level versions

Author: ```suggestion
Patch-level versions (e.g. 2.6.**3**) of Ruby are compatible with each other and often only include bug fixes and security patches. Significant upgrades to the Ruby language that include new syntax or features, and make bigger changes to the language, are released once a year—as a gift for us all—on Christmas Day.
```

> Many developers ensure their application use a specific version in development by using a “Ruby version manager”, like [rvm](https://rvm.io) or, my preferred choice, [chruby](https://github.com/postmodern/chruby).

Reviewer: *uses

Yesss for `chruby`!

Author: ```suggestion
Many developers ensure their application uses a specific version in development by using a “Ruby version manager”, like [rvm](https://rvm.io) or, my preferred choice, [chruby](https://github.com/postmodern/chruby).
```

> These version managers look for a [file](https://gist.github.com/fnichol/1912050) in the root directory of each app called `.ruby-version`. The file specifies the correct version of Ruby for this application and then switches the local environment, switching between multiple installed versions of Ruby automatically.

Reviewer: *and then automatically switches the local environment to the required version (?)

Author: ```suggestion
These version managers look for a [file](https://gist.github.com/fnichol/1912050) in the root directory of each app called `.ruby-version`. The file specifies the correct version of Ruby for this application and then automatically switches the local environment to the required version.
```

You can also [specify your Ruby version in your Gemfile](https://bundler.io/v1.12/gemfile_ruby.html) using bundler, which is more often used in your deployment environment.

## Instead of...

> ...specifying your exact ruby version in two places and potentially generating conflicts.

Reviewer: Colon at end?

Author: ```suggestion
...specifying your exact ruby version in two places and potentially generating conflicts:
```

```ruby
# Gemfile
ruby "2.6.3"
```

```ruby
# .ruby-version
2.6.5
```

This results in an error, as bundler checks the current version of Ruby.

```
Your Ruby version is 2.6.5, but your Gemfile specified 2.6.3
```

## Use

> ...use loose versioning in the `Gemfile`:

Reviewer: *...loose versioning (no double use of 'use')

Author: ```suggestion
...loose versioning in the `Gemfile`:
```

> ...use loose versioning in the `Gemfile`

Reviewer: Colon?

Author: ```suggestion
...use loose versioning in the `Gemfile`:
```

```ruby
# Gemfile
ruby "~> 2.6"
```

```ruby
# .ruby-version
2.6.5
```

## Why?

> I’ve found that having a flexible `Gemfile` Ruby has helped when deploying to environments that pre-build specific patches of Ruby and might not be as completely up to date with the latest patch versions of Ruby as soon as they are released.

Reviewer: Remove use of "I've"

*Having a flexible `Gemfile` Ruby helps when deploying to environments...

Author: ```suggestion
Having a flexible `Gemfile` Ruby helps when deploying to environments that pre-build specific patches of Ruby and might not be as completely up to date with the latest patch versions of Ruby as soon as they are released.
```

> Examples of services this have a delayed approach to the availability of new Ruby versions include Github Actions and Netlify.

Reviewer: *that have..

*services where the availability of new Ruby versions is delayed include...

Author: ```suggestion
Examples of services where the availability of new Ruby versions are delayed include Github Actions and Netlify.
```

> I’ve found that having a flexible `Gemfile` Ruby has helped when deploying to environments that pre-build specific patches of Ruby and might not be as completely up to date with the latest patch versions of Ruby as soon as they are released.

Reviewer: I would start the 'Why?' section from this paragraph, getting rid of the first sentence/paragraph, and moving the second one further down.

> You can generally upgrade between 2.6.3 and 2.6.5 without expecting any changes to how your programme works.

Reviewer: *You can usually upgrade between patch-level versions without...

Reviewer: Or just 'patch versions'...

Author: ```suggestion
You can generally upgrade between patch-level versions (e.g. 2.6.3 to 2.6.5) without expecting any changes to how your programme works.
```

> Examples of this behaviour are Github Actions or Netlify.

Reviewer: It isn't clear which behaviour you're talking about.

The flexible constraint in the `Gemfile` prevents you from having to interrupt your deployment or CI process, whilst being able to upgrade your local Ruby versions.

You also only have to update your specific version in one place when you do make a change.

> Additionally, with the flexible constraint, your deployment environment will automatically upgrade your Ruby version, on the next deploy, as it provides a more secure patch-level version.

Reviewer: This sentence could be clearer.

Maybe, "...with the flexible constraint, when there is a more secure patch-level version, your deployment environment will automatically..." ?

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, with the flexible constraint, when there is a more secure patch-level version, your deployment environment will automatically upgrade your Ruby on the next deploy.
```
